# Family
## The myth of the "typical" family
- there is no real "typical" family in western society
	- multiple generations live together
	- families can consist of step-siblings and half-siblings; there are many single-parent families
### Cohabitation
living together in an intimate relationship without formal sanctioning
- about 24% of all never-married Americans between 25-34 years are cohabiting.
### Domestic Abuse: When home is no haven
- abuse, neglect, and manipulation happens across all familial relationships. the most frequent form of family violence is sibling on sibling.
- more than one third of women and one fourth of men have been raped, physical attacked, and/or stalked by an intimate partner at some point.
- elder abuse is a relatively new field of study that investigates physical, verbal, and financial abuse intentionally or unintentionally perpetrated against people who are at least 57 years old.
### Moms and the 2nd shift
- women today often have 2 jobs: paid labor outside the home and unpaid labor inside the home
- 2nd shift: women's responsibility for housework and child care--cooking, cleaning, laundry etc
- within a 2 career household, parents are likely to spend their at-home time on separate tasks
## Swimming and sinking: inequality in american families
### african american families
- African american women have often taken a leading role in providing for their families
- W. E. B Dubois argues that the high rate of female-headed families in the African american community was a result of racial oppression and poverty, not cause of it
- African american communities tend to have expanded notions of kinship, including non-blood relatives.
### Latino families
- Latinos come from many different countries and cultural backgrounds. but some characteristics can be identified as common
	- strong family and community ties
	- adherence to traditional gender roles
	- devout Catholicism
	- high marriage rates
	- low divorce rates
### single mothers
- single, nonworking mothers face many challenges, including the attitude of critics of welfare, who thick that they prefer being on welfare to working.
- most women would prefer not to be on welfare, but the nature of the system means that often they end up with less income and fewer benefits when they move from welfare to work.
- #
# Poverty
A condition of deprivation due to economic circumstances that is severe enough that people in this condition cannot live w/ dignity in their society
At the core of the debate about poverty in american is the question of whether poverty is the cause of social ills such as crime, poor educational outcomes, divorce, or whether it is their result

### Poverty in recessions
- during a recession, poverty rates may be higher
- a recession is a period of economic decline lasting half a year or more. individuals may become unemployed, forcing the to cut back on expenses. businesses may close because no customers shop there
- as a result, more people lose jobs because the businesses they work for are closing. thus, recessions often have wide-ranging and severe impacts on a society
### Culture of Poverty
- argues that poor people adopt certain practices, which differ from those of middle-class, "mainstream" society, in order to adapt and survive in difficult economic circumstances.
- while it may be true that reliance on welfare generates a sense of helplessness and dependency in some people, there are also structural reasons why it can be difficult to transition from welfare to work.
"Blaming the victim" - a per case basis term referring to the act of accusing a victim of a circumstance as the reason they're in said circumstance
"Victim blaming" - a term only used by self-proclaimed SJW's meant to discredit anybody who "blames the victim" in any circumstance
## Poverty Amid Plenty
- **Absolute Poverty:** the point at which a household's income falls below the necessary level to purchase food to physically sustain its members
### Poverty Line
- official povverty linein the united stance is calculated using a formula developed in the '60s
	- formula estimates food costs for minimum food requiresments to determine whether a family can "afford" to survive
	- this process can be problematic, as the cost of food has decreased but the cost of libing (rent, utilities, etc) has increased